docs: Rewrite dispatchCommand page (#6296)
software-mansion/react-native-reanimated: packages/docs-reanimated/docs/advanced/dispatchCommand.mdx

# dispatchCommand

import DispatchCommandSrc from '!!raw-loader!@site/src/examples/DispatchCommand';

`dispatchCommand` allows you to run commands on a native component. It happens on UI thread.

## Reference

```javascript
import { dispatchCommand } from 'react-native-reanimated';

function App() {

>   const animatedRef = useAnimatedRef()
> 
>   const gesture = Gesture.Tap().onStart(() => {
>     dispatchCommand(animatedRef, 'focus)
>   })

Reviewer: This snippet lacks some semicolons, one quotation mark and would be great to add a highlight
```suggestion
  const animatedRef = useAnimatedRef();

  const gesture = Gesture.Tap().onStart(() => {
    // highlight-next-line
    dispatchCommand(animatedRef, 'focus');
  })
```

  return (
    <>

>       <AnimatedTextInput ref={aref} style={styles.input} />

Reviewer: Let's be consistent with the previous name 
```suggestion
      <AnimatedTextInput ref={animatedRef} style={styles.input} />
```

      <GestureDetector gesture={gesture}>
        <Button title="Focus" />
      </GestureDetector>
    </>
  )

}
```

<details>
<summary>Type definitions</summary>

```typescript
function dispatchCommand<T extends Component>(
  animatedRef: AnimatedRef<T>,
  commandName: string,
  args?: unknown[]

>   ) => void;

Reviewer: Unneeded indent
```suggestion
) => void;
```

```

</details>

### Arguments

#### `animatedRef`

> The product of [`useAnimatedRef`](/docs/core/useAnimatedRef) which is Reanimated's extension of a standard React ref (delivers the view tag on the UI thread).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The product of [`useAnimatedRef`](/docs/core/useAnimatedRef), which is Reanimated's extension of a standard React ref (delivers the view tag on the UI thread).
```

#### `commandName`

> The name of the command to execute, e.g. `focus` or `scrollToEnd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the command to execute, e.g. `'focus'` or `'scrollToEnd'`.
```

# dispatchCommand

import DispatchCommandSrc from '!!raw-loader!@site/src/examples/DispatchCommand';

> `dispatchCommand` allows you to run commands on a native component. It happens on UI thread.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`dispatchCommand` allows you to run commands on a native component from the UI thread directly.
```

## Reference

```javascript
import { dispatchCommand } from 'react-native-reanimated';

function App() {
  const animatedRef = useAnimatedRef();

  const gesture = Gesture.Tap().onStart(() => {
    // highlight-next-line
    dispatchCommand(animatedRef, 'focus');
  });

  return (
    <>
      <AnimatedTextInput ref={animatedRef} style={styles.input} />
      <GestureDetector gesture={gesture}>
        <Button title="Focus" />
      </GestureDetector>
    </>
  );
}
```

<details>
<summary>Type definitions</summary>

```typescript
function dispatchCommand<T extends Component>(
  animatedRef: AnimatedRef<T>,
  commandName: string,
  args?: unknown[]
) => void;
```

</details>

### Arguments

#### `animatedRef`

> The product of [`useAnimatedRef`](/docs/core/useAnimatedRef), which is Reanimated's extension of a standard React ref (delivers the view tag on the UI thread).

Reviewer 2: Please use the definition that's provided in i.e. `measure`:

> An [animated ref](http://localhost:3000/react-native-reanimated/docs/core/useAnimatedRef#returns) connected to the component you'd want to update. The animated ref has to be passed either to an [Animated component](http://localhost:3000/react-native-reanimated/docs/fundamentals/glossary#animated-component) or a React Native built-in component.

#### `commandName`

The name of the command to execute, e.g. `'focus'` or `'scrollToEnd'`.

#### `args` <Optional />

The array of command arguments. Defaults to an empty array.

## Example

<ExampleVideo
  sources={{
    android: '/react-native-reanimated/recordings/dispatchCommand_android.mov',
    ios: '/react-native-reanimated/recordings/dispatchCommand_ios.mov',
  }}

> />

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we could attach here a more real use-case example instead of the current one.

You can simply touch the input boxes instead of buttons `focus login` and `focus pwd`, those buttons don't seem to provide any value.

Reviewer: There is a value, someone might have some custom logic that focuses some certain text input - for example an error when filling some form automatically focuses said input that the user needs to fix.

Reviewer: But yeah, even then the example would have to be changed a bit

Reviewer 2: > There is a value, someone might have some custom logic that focuses some certain text input - for example an error when filling some form automatically focuses said input that the user needs to fix.

Then we should show exactly this use case. But don't worry, I gave @patrycjakalinska some suggestions already.

<CollapsibleCode src={DispatchCommandSrc} showLines={[34, 40]} />

## Remarks

> - The commands are automatically [workletized](/docs/fundamentals/glossary#to-workletize) and ran on the [UI thread](/docs/fundamentals/glossary#ui-thread).

Reviewer 2: This isn't necessary and even could be misleading. Please remove it.

  }}
/>

<CollapsibleCode src={DispatchCommandSrc} showLines={[30, 34]} />

## Remarks

> - Commands differ from component to component. Check relevant sources i.e. React Native documentation on [components](https://reactnative.dev/docs/components-and-apis), to see which commands are available.

Reviewer 2: In my head there shouldn't be a comma.

```suggestion
- Commands differ from component to component. Check relevant sources i.e. React Native documentation on [components](https://reactnative.dev/docs/components-and-apis) to see which commands are available.
```
